# Lecture 2: Underpinnings of Ethics

The lecture begins with Stephen Cohen introducing us to what he believes are the fundamentals for what ethics is about. This involves the consideration of ethics being where one thinks of another's needs above our own. Cohen goes through a variety of thought schools for how one may go about putting another's needs above their own and at what point that intention is satisfactory to be considered ethical. 

First Cohen talks about relativism in ethics which is how values are allowed to vary amongst different times, places and peoples. Descriptive relativism explains that this is simply a "matter of fact", however this does not give a basis for anybody to disregard the values of another. Normative relativism accounts for this but condemns the judgement of another's values and deems all views as equally correct. In conjunction with the foundation that ethics involve thinking of another's needs above one's own presents a wide spectrum of ethical values which individuals can inhabit irrespective of the many factors which differentiate them from one another. 

Cohen then delves into how perspectives on ethics can be formed. These are specifically split between descriptive ethics and prescriptive ethics. The former being where real behaviour is observed and evaluated to be either ethical or not. For example, one may see another discriminate against their classmate and evaluate that this behaviour is unethical due to them holding one to a different standard outside of reasonability. The latter is where one arrives at a conclusion for how people should ethically behave through introspection in a universal manner without the need for a specific case study. Prescriptive ethics is therefore dealing with normative ethics as it is bounding ethical behaviour to universal values. 

Normative ethical theories breaks down further into deontological, virtue and teleological ethics. Deontological ethics or ethics by rules looks into your past where what you do is good if you are maintaining a previously decided action. If you promise something and come through with that promise, then you are being deontologically ethical. Ethics by virtue is where your actions are a direct by product of your virtues. If you have the virtue of courage, then any courageous action you take can be considered to be ethical. Finally teleological ethics, or ethics by consequence, looks into the future and determines the ethicality of an action based on what its consequences will be. John Stuart Mill (1861) developed an explanation of this where an action is right in proportion to whether it produces happiness, in which case that action is considered to be teleologically ethical.

Within deontological and teleological, we now also have theories of narrower scope such as utilitarianism, egoism and nationalism as consequential theories and Kantian or other possible non-consequential theories. Utilitarianism determines that an action is right if it produces utility such as happiness, welfare or satisfaction whereas egoism states that actions are right if they benefit oneself. Nationalism on the other hand evaluates an action based on whether it benefits their nation. Kantian ethics was derived from Immanuel Kant (1785) who believed that the motivation to do good is more important than the actual consequences it realises. The only thing that is unconditionally good is a good will, where the result does not matter more than the will to do good. This is distinct from hoping for good to happen, it is focused around the will to make yourself to act with the intention of good will coming out of it.