# COMP6841 2020 Final

## Question 1

skip

## Question 2

1. How useful: 7
2. Few but important advice which do not gloss over what some may consider to be obvious. They gave a date and extent of the breach which shows good communication and use dot points to summarise and clearly direct the reader's attention. It has a link for further reading and also provides contact details if people have questions and require more assistance.
3. It is not entirely accurate and good advice as sometimes blindly updating can be harmful for your device and security due to vulnerabilities and bugs within updates. It has a basic email structure with a shortened hyperlink in `help` which are 2 weakness that can be exploited through phishing.
4. below
  1. Have a call to action which advises everyone to upgrade their security in light of the breach
  2. More information on how the breach occurred and what they are doing to improve the situation
5. We want to be more direct and transparent about what has occurred and what everyone can do to improve their personal security. We want to reassure the readers that we are taking objective actions in order to improve their security from an infrastructural standpoint.

## Question 3

1. below
  1. SEPARATE
  2. With separated operations centers you have the advantage of dedicated resources towards ensuring cyber operations are well maintained and all incidents and emergencies are treated with the appropriate level of importance. Within combined as it has a wider range of responsibilities, some issues are likely to be underlooked. With a separated body, the people within cyber operations can have further specialisation and clearer objectives.
  3. Two situations in Apollo 13 showed the advantage of separated operations however 1 situation similarly showed a disadvantage. When faced with the incompatible CO2 filters, they had a group of engineers break off to solve the issue. Similarly when faced with the lack of energy for a reentry manoeuvrem, they had Mattingly and a few others go to simulate a solution. Both these situations show that smaller groups with clearer objectives and specialised skills are far more productive. However, we also see that the separated design of the lunar module is what caused an incompatibility between CO2 filters in the first place. While Apollo 13 does show the strengths of separated operations, it also gives a warning for how strong communication needs to be between teams.

## Question 4

1. C
2. Encrypting the email is good but it doesn't specify whether it is end-to-end encryption and so stil is not reliable whatsoever.

## Question 5

1. Peter Cooper
2. Was a Senior Analyst for CBA before he even started his bachelors degree
3. Invite him to be a speaker at a security conference or event held by a trusted vendor and route him to your site.

## Question 6

1. Hi! There is 
