# COMP6841 Final 2016

0. google it
1. 6 bits of data
2. below
   1. Slow, susceptible to man in the middle, needs to be verified by third party
   2. Using a new session key for every usage
3. below
   1. Assumptions => Mallory is already listening
4. Fileless malware attaches to RAM registers and so is not wiped with hard drive reformatting and OS reinstallation
5. below
   1. Pros
      1. Getting information to affected victims asap so they can change credentials
      2. Businesses will invest further in security to ensure they don't suffer a public reputation fall in the case of a breach
   2. Cons
      1. Third party hackers can jump on the bandwagon and exploit vulnerabilities or leaked credentials
   3. Have a specified period of time before the notification must come out
   4. This gives the business a period of time to investigate the hack rather than setting off alarms which could alert the hacker and cause them to escape without leaving a trail
6. eth
7. below
   1. Length Extension
   2. SQLi
   3. XSS
   4. phishing
8. below
   1. Hiding malicious code within a legitimate package
   2. Get the certificate validated by someone who doesn't care that it's malicious
   3. Get safe code signed and then use the same signature after inserting malicious code
   4. Gain access to a validated digital certificate from a trusted vendor and extract its signature to use as your own
9. below
   1. Assume a foreign intelligence agency is the largest computing force and intends on breaking this. Assuming their computing power consists of 10k Ryzen Threadripper 3990X (64 Core - 4GHz) which are the most powerful processors out now, they have `10000*64*4*10^9` bits of work (2^52/sec) which is `2^52*2^17` or 2^69 bits of work per day. To crack 128 bits, we then need 2^128/2^69 which is 2^59 days. If this amount of computing power is too much, where a potential attacker would have significantly fewer resources, they have no need to upgrade to AES256.
   2. f
10. f
11. f
12. below
   1. zero-proof
   2. no cop
13. below
   1. The date and time ensures a replay attack cannot be conducted
   2. 13062016154990000DEPOSITTONEDKELLYJUNIOR
14.
   1. 

HQ EE TU TO II SN AE
PM SR TT AO UI CD OI
NE OE PO HY CN AE UD
IH PR CE TH TA IE SE
WI NR SC ER SU NT GE
IH UU TE FR
